ah ba nous en the first thought that
comes to mind in connection to Gary
Yourofsky now at the time of his final
retirement from the movement is a quote
from Edie lover
Edie lover is a radio personality TV
talk show host that kind of guy in the
hip-hop and rap demi-monde and I
remember Edie lover commenting on a
failed political movement in New York
City political movement that was on the
ballot formal electoral politics and
lobbying political movement called the
rent is too damn high tell from the name
of the political party exactly what
they're about and anyone watching this
if you really from Manhattan Island if
you grew up downtown New York City I
think you will have you will have heard
of this it was sort of locally famous
and infamous this political movement
based around the complaint that the rent
is too damn high and with Ed Lover in
passing judgment on this group you know
he was saying some amusing things about
the highly eccentric
seemingly insane leader of the group and
he said look it's a beautiful message
but you are not the guy to deliver it
and just it's just you know stuck with
me the simplicity of that we said look
this is an important political message
somebody should organize a political
movement to complain about the rent try
to get try to do something with the rent
being too high in New York City but you
aren't the guy to do it and you know and
looking at Gary Yourofsky in a nutshell
all I have to say is sure it's a
beautiful message it's a message I care
about it's a message I'm coming on
YouTube every day and talking about Gary
Yourofsky was not the guy to deliver it
this is what I think should happen a
rapist even somebody who raped a woman
in a fur coat
that ever happens I think that his penis
and his ball should be seared off with a
cuticle remover slowly then I think two
skewers should be shoved into their eye
sockets
[Music]
it's gonna be in the very near future
that somebody bust into a slaughterhouse
or vivisection lab with guns and they
tell the slaughterhouse workers you take
those nights off those pigs throats
right now I'm gonna shoot you I have
prior videos on this channel criticizing
his endorsement of violence he did
believe in breaking and entering in the
use of violence against property a video
very thoroughly castigating that and
explaining exactly why that's wrong and
why you actually can't separate violence
against property for violence against
persons that's why break-and-enter
crimes often end up in murder and
assault and what-have-you the thieves
may have just been planning to commit a
crime against property but things don't
go as planned there are certain groups
of individuals who will not listen to
reason and for that you need violence
where the defenders you might want to
call it violence but hey you're bringing
it on yourself I've met vegans
face-to-face who glamorized the idea of
people being put in prison who think
there's something heroic or wonderful
about vegans going to prison for this
type of of violent activism
if vegans are known primarily for
standing up in a restaurant and
screaming hysterically at strangers and
breaking down weeping and screaming it's
not food it's violence yes that
discredits veganism guess what violence
much more profoundly discredit veganism
a discredit Gary Yourofsky as an
individual it discredits any
organization he's a member of any
organization he's a leader of it
discredits veganism as an ideal and
that's a damn shame and have another
video at the opposite extremist oppose
talking about his frankly insane views
on insects and how vegans should never
kill insects it's the sort of thing if
you're not really paying attention on
the surface it seems to make sense that
seems very well and good take it apart
think about the implications it gets
troubling I forget if I did a third or a
fourth about your offski you can you can
search channel history and see what else
what else is done you take those knifes
off those pigs throats right now
I'm gonna shoot you this is a man who
wasn't merely factually wrong this is a
man who was deeply morally and ethically
wrong and was really the wrong person to
play the role that he headed up playing
for the movement and we saw that in a
thousand examples him screaming at
journalists on Israeli television you
know the embarrassing statements about
everything from rape to the Israeli
Palestine conflict his you know
professed hatred for all of humanity
misanthropic I can't even really say
it's he's a normal conventional
misanthrope you know again his own
criminal history and then the criminal
tactics he endorsed and supported for
the movement and now with this farewell
message you know were reminded one trait
in his character he was the kind of guy
it was never enough for him to be right
he also had to show that everyone else
was wrong
you know he's complaining that the
reason why he's quit the reason why he's
giving up is not because it's so tough
to talk to meteors not that it's tough
to talk to you know his opponents but
because he can't stand the dealing with
his fellow vegans he says it's a
thousand times worse
dealing with other vegans dealing with
apologist vegans pacifist vegans and
intersexuals vegans that's a thousand
times more draining than dealing with
car nests ie
meat eaters he complains their act their
idea of activism is attacking anyone who
doesn't worship at the altar of humanity
especially if they refuse to do yoga Sun
salutes on the beach before exchanging
energy hugs hugs with unbathed hippies
in a Woodstock like drum circle caring
of uselessness so look I mean his
burnout reflects pretty much all the
issues I've been talking about on this
channel even in the last few months
going way back I have a video that I
still think is important and worth
watching talking about how to not get
burnt out in these conversations videos
in the last few days have really talked
about these issues
I'll just interrupt myself to add this
is really really comfortable
what I had to say about freely freelee
the banana girl described herself as the
most effective vegan activist in the
world and then I asked the question wolf
what you were doing was so effective why
did you burn out why did you quit big
question I can give the link to that
video below there's another really
useful video I made over a year ago I'll
provide the the link in the description
below where I title is don't debate the
details and it really tackles the issue
of vegans getting burnt out because many
of them deal with every social
interaction every dialogue as if it is
activism as if it is an occasion for
preaching and not for listening to their
person's point of view and understanding
their motivations and not for
communicating your own motivations and
talk about not the difference between
communicating facts and communicating
what my motivations are why this matters
to me a really useful video and where I
am talking about exactly the problem
that's both implicit and explicit in
this retirement announcement from from
Gary Yourofsky the problem of vegans
obsessing over email or Facebook
comments or even face-to-face
conversations this way having a kind of
misplaced passion and then that leading
to burnouts that that video is a
practical guide how to avoid burnout and
as I say the open reproach I gave too
freely I might as well here give to yob
ski also well you're asked if you
believe in this method if you believe
this is working
why are you broken you know this is a
kind of a pattern I've seen again and
again people have expectations of the
community the community doesn't live up
to those expectations and they drop out
that in my very first video about
veganism on this channel not the first
video ever I talked about exactly that
danger and you know I addressed comments
to Joe vegan very much along these same
lines you know of any other social
movement you tell me who has suffered
less this is a tremendously bitter
tirade against his fellow vegans not
against meat-eaters not against the
establishment
you know he starts by saying he's burnt
out comparable to a professional athlete
like Michael Jordan well no it's not
comparable is it what you do is
communicating political ideas first and
foremost and then if he had a human
decency you'd also be listening to and
responding to other people's political
ideas you'd also be doing some
constructing to build the movement he
doesn't do that really he narrows his
idea of activism is just broadcasting
it's a one-way process of communicating
political ideas that he has and everyone
else is wrong he hasn't form any
coalition's than he wanted doesn't
cooperate with anyone that's it it's a
one-man show so his vision of activism
is closer to stand-up comedy and he was
very successful at it he's been the most
successful guy at it in his generation I
think he was on the road from 2002 to
2014 for seven and a half months a year
traveling to 30 states giving 2660
lectures in total including 186 schools
generous donors paid his bills paying
for his travel expenses you're
complaining really again look at any
other social movement in the history of
the world any other political movement
even artistic movements my dude you know
I probably had to sleep in a bunch of
Howard Johnson hotels well other rebel
leaders had to sleep in caves you know
what I mean you didn't have to camp out
in the forest you didn't have to sleep
in a tent maybe you did for fun but I
mean you know when you look at the
history of his struggle for the
emancipation of slavery struggle for
civil rights equal rights women's rights
struggle of I mean any exactly struggle
for gay rights um you know who has
suffered less revolutionaries throughout
history we're all crazy crazy enough to
fight the system to stand up in a court
of law and not apologize
for breaking the law to go up against
cops judges politicians society in
general and if you want to say that well
you still support violence I've never
denied that I support violence how is it
possible to be so fatuous so
self-indulgent and so self pitying well
at the same time lashing out with
bitterness against your fellow vegans
because they are he complains a bunch of
passivist hippies in in a drum circle
but stuck yeah well look Gary you know
in case you can't guess from the cactus
in the background I'm not a hippie
myself
Casey a guest from the constant
references to rap music even within this
video I'm not a hippie myself however if
I had to choose sides
Gary between the vegans who subscribe to
non-violence and the vegans like
yourself who normally subscribe to and
preach and practice violent methods and
go to prison for violent methods and
propound that violence illegal use of
force Breaking and Entering etc that
violence is acceptable and it sprays way
if I had to choose sides I'm on with the
appease you know and there are a lot of
reasons for that including just the
virtue of long term thinking I've said
many times before on this channel at
some point short-term thinking starts to
resemble evil and you know if you're
only thinking about your next YouTube
video or your next six hours of
answering emails I think it's how he he
really was living Lascaux fear is just
sending back and forth all these emails
or you're just thinking about your next
gig on this touring circuit you're
probably not taking a step back to ask
where is this gonna put me where is this
gonna put us five years from now ten
years from now and I got to tell you
that long-term view it means a lot more
than just staying out of prison the
violent and illegal methods of activism
I think there are short-term arguments
in their favor but they really fall
apart when you look at the long term and
you Gary
you fell apart over the long term
you yourself are living proof that your
philosophy doesn't work you are living
proof that your philosophy drove you mad
that's what you say that you've lost
your mind you've gotten worn out and
broken mentally and emotionally from
your philosophy and your praxis okay
to quote Marcus Aurelius we are not
debating for any ordinary prize we are
debating for whether we are to be sane
or insane okay we need to have a
philosophy that we can live with that's
productive for us privately and publicly
and that also puts us in a political
position where we can win and you know
what my problem with your political
philosophy is Gary is that it's for
losers and if you're a self-pitying
loser who really wants to feel that
you're better than everyone else
well spending ten years of your life in
a jail cell this is the philosophy for
you but that's not the philosophy for me
and it's not gonna be the philosophy
couette for the people who actually
build the future of this movement so
yeah it's a goddamn shame that of all
the people who could have ended up
selected almost at random to be in this
leadership position because you know the
Internet makes people famous in an
almost random method it's a goddamn
shame that it was you Gary because it's
a beautiful message but you are not the
guy to deliver it the new CN